Hey everyone, and thanks for dropping
back into the heavy metal verse.
Today, we're going to talk about gold,
and we're going to discuss the path
through the rest of the year. If you
guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and also check out the sale
on Into the Cryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, gold is
currently trading around $4,000 an
ounce, and it's actually it's actually
had a sizable correction after this
large move up we had going into January
2026. Now,
if you followed my views on gold
uh for the last year or so, we talked
about a parabolic rally, but then a
correction in the first half of 2026.
Considering that it's now June,
I thought it was timely to maybe make a
video update now since the first half of
2026 is almost over.
Predicting where the low is going to
occur is very difficult. Um you know, I
I I talked about it with with Bitcoin.
We we sort of speculated about it with
with things, but no one truly knows.
But, we can look at history to get an
idea of of what might happen.
And so, my guess
is that gold will likely find a low,
probably between the June
to October time frame,
but on average in midterm years, gold
tends to bottom in June or July.
On average. So, let's go through some of
the examples and then talk about, you
know, why the low will likely occur in
that time frame. So, the first thing we
could do is look at seasonality. And as
I've said before, seasonality only works
about 70% of the time. So, if you run
with it, it'll likely work more often
than not, but about 30% of the time, you
would probably see it do something else.
So, seasonality is certainly not
everything.
But, if you look at the year-to-date ROI
of gold in 2026 and compare it to the
average of prior midterm years, you get
a chart that looks like this. If you
overlay one standard deviation to that
average, you can see we exceeded the
returns in the beginning of the year.
And now, the losses have exceeded the
typical losses that we get going into
the summer.
Currently, it is day 162
of the year, and on average, gold
bottoms on day 187.
So, on average, in midterm years, gold
tends to find a low
in the summer.
It can extend longer,
but I would start really looking for
lows to form,
you know, especially the later we get in
June, and especially going into like
July, August, September, October time
frame, and likely gearing up for another
move up going into sort of the 2027,
2028 time frame.
One of the reasons why I mean, it's so
hard to nail down lows. Let's actually
look at at a lot of the midterm years,
rather than rather than just say, "Oh,
this is what happens on average." Let's
actually look at at what most of them
have actually done. So, we're going to
remove the average. Now, look at 2026
compared to 2022. You'll notice that
they don't look that dissimilar, right?
What you'll see is that gold had a move
early in the year, and then it kind of
bled out, um and ultimately, it found a
low around the time that the stock
market found a low. So, that's the
reason why I feel like I have to be open
As much as I'd like gold to bottom
sooner, and I think it could, I have to
be open-minded to a low occurring a
little bit later if gold is to follow
what I would think would be a correction
by stocks going into like late Q3, early
Q4.
If you look at 2018, you can see that
again, we had sort of an initial move
early in the year, and then we just kind
of bled out into day 227, which would
only be a couple of months from now
before the market started to pick back
up.
If you compare this to 2014, you can see
we ended up getting the low later in the
year. If you look at 2010, there was a
low that formed in the summer. It was in
a It was in a bull market, and we
continued higher.
And if we go look at 2006, which I think
there's
plenty of There are some similarities.
There was a low formed, you know, around
the summer months, and then we sort of
trended up after that. And then going
into 2007, gold continued to go up.
So,
my guess
is that gold will likely find a low
between the June to October timeframe.
The reason I say that is because on
average, gold tends to bottom in June or
July in mid-term years.
Uh but
if stocks get a correction, it could
drag gold down with it.
Be that as it may, there are some
examples in the past where gold starts
to go up even during that stock market
correction, which is why it could bottom
earlier in the summer.
Let's go through a few examples, all
right?
Now, let's go through one of the more
egregious ones because one of the things
that we've talked about a lot is how in
the last two major gold bull markets,
they were interrupted, both of them,
they were interrupted by a recession
in the United States.
Now, in the current gold bull market,
we don't know We haven't had a recession
in the United States.
So, I don't even know if current
correction that you're seeing is
actually one that lines up with a
recession or not. The labor market as it
stands right now is still holding up
relatively okay. So, I can't look at
that and be like, "Oh, well, this is a
recession necessarily." because it might
not be.
You might say, "Well, this is a pretty
steep correction by gold." And have we
had corrections like that before and not
have a recession in the United States?
Well, if you look at 2008, gold dropped
about 33% in the larger bull market
before going on to new all-time highs.
If you look at 1974,
gold dropped about 25% before going to
new all-time highs later that year.
What is the current drawdown by gold?
It's about 28%. Okay? But, if you look
at what gold did in 2006,
it had a correction of about 25%.
If you look at what gold did in 1973,
it had about a 28% drop. Now, again,
these were fairly normal corrections for
gold to have in route to a larger
speculative blow-off top that then
lasted a really, really long time.
So, I'm not here to say that it it can't
go lower. What I'm here to say is that,
look, there's
pretty there's pretty obviously large
corrections in gold
that have happened in bull markets and
the top still was not in.
Now, you might retort and say, "Well,
what about the monthly RSI, right? That
one was got That got pretty egregiously
overbought. And so, could we really
expect gold to recover after a monthly
RSI of 95?"
But, the last time the monthly RSI was
around 95 was actually in 1973
when gold had a correction about a 28%
correction, which is where it is right
now, and then we still rallied up to
all-time highs. What I would argue with
the RSI is you want to look for
divergences, like a high on the RSI and
then a lower high a few years later, and
then the price puts in a high while and
then a higher high. So, you you get like
a negative um this bearish divergence
that essentially occurs.
But, we've only had the initial high.
Right? And even last business cycle for
gold, you can see the high for the
monthly RSI occurred right before this
drop in 2008, but we went higher, gold
went higher, and printed a lower high on
the monthly RSI. So, for me, I remain
still bullish on gold.
And having a correction in the first
half of 2026 is what we said would
likely happen. All right? We said this
is a likely outcome.
And if you look at what happened in the
last midterm year, you can see that gold
also had had some sizable corrections in
the last midterm year. If you look at
2022,
you can see that gold corrected from
March into you know, into like October,
and it had about a 22% drop.
So, what I'm saying is this.
I'm saying you have your first leg of
the bull market and then a midterm year
consolidation correction.
And then you have your second leg of the
bull market, and then your midterm year
consolidation correction, which will
then eventually lead sort of to the
third and likely final leg of the bull
market going into the end of the decade.
That is how I think this is going to
play out for gold.
You should be aware that in bull
markets, you will have corrections like
this. Okay? This is a a fairly standard
correction for gold. I know it looks
bad, but again, when you look at monthly
Heikin-Ashi candles, I mean, this is
what it looks like, right? And you can
see how in these prior bull markets,
you know, getting these corrections was
just par for the course and wasn't
necessarily an indication of a of a top
that was going to last for a very long
time.
So, I think this is a a really important
chart to to really zoom out on
to hopefully get a better understanding
of of like what actually could happen.
And I also think too that you know, if
you're if you're a crypto trader, you
might be used to market ideas playing
out over just a few weeks or a few
months, but with gold, this is something
that, you know, it it just kind of sits
in your portfolio for a decade or two
decades or longer and and it tends to do
pretty well over the long term even
though there are periods where it it
doesn't do so well. Now, when you look
at gold divided by the stock market,
what you'll see is that gold has a
rallied or sorry, yeah, gold rallied up
against the stock market and took out
these prior highs, but it actually had a
really large sell-off.
Okay?
Now, there are times where this kind of
stuff happens. You get sort of this big
fake out above it and then we come right
back down and then you get another push
back up. We've seen that actually happen
a few times before. Like if you look at
things like Bitcoin dominance and you
look at at, you know, the breakout that
it had right here, right? It sort of had
this this small little breakout and then
it came back down. We've seen that
happen with with many different assets.
I think even palladium
did something like that once upon a
time, right? Look at palladium, you can
see how it it broke through and then
after breaking through, it had a sizable
correction, right? It dropped about 20%
and then it really went through. Now,
it's come back down, but you can see how
sometimes after you break through these
levels, it it can in fact come back
down. So, here's the thing.
If you go back in history and look at
the times previously where gold sort of
had these moves uh against the stock
market, you can see that well 1973 is an
example.
And and the 1960s, 1970s where we broke
through. You can see that and um
you know, you can see how how much it
continued to go up. In 2008, we sort of
broke through this level, oscillated
here for a little, and then continued to
go higher.
What I would what I could see happening
is the bleed for gold really slowing
down if not coming to a complete stop in
the next few months, and then gold
starting to recover while stocks then
start to show weakness after the semis
start to to sort of lose the bid for at
least a little while as as cooler
markets prevail going into the end of
the midterm year. Remember, when you
look at the stock market in midterm
years, what you'll see the cadence of
stock markets in midterm years is that
you get a correction by stocks at at the
beginning of the year, and then often
you'll get a correction by stocks at the
end of the year. That's 2014, here's
2018, and then 2022. Right, you'll get
corrections by stocks at the beginning
of the year and the end of the year. And
so, we already got our correction by
stocks at the beginning of the year.
We'll likely get one at the end of the
year as well. And so, at least in the
back half of the year. So, if gold were
to bottom out, let's say between June
and October,
and then stocks start to really be or
are weak around that time,
then you would start to see the gold
ratio go up against the stock market.
The gold valuation go up against the
stock market
uh during that time.
So,
I would argue that it it's possible
that gold could bottom as early as sort
of the June-July time frame. Because on
average, that's what we've seen. Right?
On average, that's where we've seen it
ultimately find a low. We could go
through all the different examples as
well. Uh like we already looked at all
of them through the through through
2006. Here's 2002. You can see it was
more of a bull market back then. 1998,
you can see it found a low in kind of
like late June, early July, and then
just swept that low in October. But I
mean I There wasn't really a great
reason to be bearish on it after that
low just for a sweep of the prior low.
And then you can look at 1994.
1990. In 1990, gold found a low
late June, early July, and then went
back up. And see, if gold were to do
something like this, if it were like
bottom out in the next few weeks, and
then trend back up at the same time that
maybe the stock market's getting a
correction, that's how you could see
that gold ratio against
uh the gold valuation against um the
stock market really uh
change a lot. Here's what it looks like
in 1986. And in 1982, like in 1982, you
can see gold bottomed out in like late
June, early July, and then had a pretty
nice rally into the end of the year.
You can look at 1978.
1974. 1974, you can see we bottomed out
like June, July time frame.
Uh 1970.
Etc.
So,
I don't think it makes sense to get
overly concerned about the correction in
gold. I mean,
objectively, last year, we looked at the
market and said, "Look, gold is due for
a correction. It'll likely happen in the
first half of 2026."
It could go a little bit beyond that,
but it I don't think it'll go too much
beyond that.
The other thing to remember is that for
gold, the bull market support band, as
I've stated previously, is based on the
20-month moving average and the 21-month
EMA.
And what you'll notice is that in the
last bull market that gold had, it
basically stayed above that
bull market support band on the monthly
with the exception of the fake out in
2008.
You can see in 19 in the 1970s, gold
stayed above that bull market support
band with the exception that of the uh
the drawdown here that we had right
after right after the reces- the
recession in 1974.
So, we actually already did drop below
it in 2022.
So, I guess what I'm saying is look,
there's a good chance gold will sort of
find support on this bull market support
band, consolidate there, and then
ultimately go up higher into the end of
the decade.
That's at least my guess as to what's
going to happen. Some people will ask,
is it possible for gold to put in new
all-time highs this year?
It is possible, but I think the only way
it would happen at this point is if gold
were to bottom within the next few
weeks. If it doesn't bottom within the
next few weeks, instead it goes down
into say like September or October, then
it would be less likely that it would be
putting in new all-time highs this year.
But, it's not impossible. For instance,
if you look at 1973, you can see that
gold found a top in June, fell down into
November, and then was putting in new
all-time highs by January. Right? So,
that was only about 7 or 8 months, and
in that correction, gold dropped about
28%, which is what it's down about right
now.
In 1974, gold topped in April, dropped,
found a low in July, and then rallied to
new all-time highs by December of that
same year. So, it is possible,
but in order for gold to put in new
all-time highs this year, it would need
to bottom out within the next month. If
it does not bottom out within the next
month, it is very unlikely to put in new
all-time highs. I do think it will
eventually put in new all-time highs in
the 2027-2028 time frame, but if you
want to happen but if you want it to
happen in 2026, we need to see we need
to see gold bottom out relatively soon.
So,
those are my views on gold.
Structurally, I would remain like I
remain bullish on gold. Uh I think these
consolidation-correction periods in the
mid-term years are a nice reset in the
market, and I think that's essentially
what what gold is experiencing right
now. So, those are my views. Thank you
guys for tuning in. Make sure you
subscribe, give the video thumbs up. I
want to remind people that I am throwing
a conference later this year. If you
want to sign up to get updates for that,
check the link down in the description
below and and you can sign up and get
updates for that conference in case
you're interested in attending. I will
see you guys next time. Bye.